[MUSIC]
Now, we've introduced the Kalman Filter,
let's discuss little bit about what makes
it such an appealing estimation method.
By the end of this lesson,
you'll be able to define a few terms
that are important in state estimation.
First, the concept of bias.
And second, consistency.
Finally, you'll use these definitions to
show why the Kalman Filter is the best
Linear Unbiased Estimator, or BLUE.
Let's dive in.
First, let's discuss bias.
Let's consider our Kalman Filter
from the previous lesson and
use it to estimate the position
of our autonomous car.
If we have some way of knowing the true
position of the vehicle, for example,
an oracle tells us,
we can then use this to record a position
error of our filter at each time step k.
Since we're dealing with random noise,
doing this once is not enough.
We'll need to repeat this same
process over and over and
record our position
error at each time step.
Once we've collected these errors, if they
average to zero at a particular time step
k, then we say the Kalman Filter
estimate is unbiased at this time step.
Graphically, this is what
the situation may look like.
Say the particular time step, we know
that the true position is the following.
We build a histogram of the positions that
our filter reports over multiple trials,
and then compute the difference between
the average of these estimates and
the true position.
If this difference does not approach zero,
then our estimate is biased.
However, if this difference does approach
zero as we repeat this experiment
many more times, and
if this happens for all time intervals,
then we say that our filter is unbiased.
Although we could potentially verify
this lack of bias empirically,
what we'd really like are some
theoretical guarantees.
Let's consider the error
dynamics of our filter.
Defining our predicted and corrected state
errors, we can then use the common filter
equations to write
the following relations.
For the Kalman Filter,
we can show the expectation value of
these errors is equal to zero exactly.
For this to be true, we need to ensure
that our initial state estimate
is unbiased and that our noise is white,
uncorrelated, and zero mean.
While this is a great result for
linear systems,
remember that this doesn't guarantee that
our estimates will be error free for
a given trial, only that the expected
value of the error is zero.
Kalman Filters are also
what is called consistent.
By consistency we mean that for
all time steps k, the filter
co-variants P sub k matches the expected
value of the square of our error.
For scalar parameters,
this means that the empirical variance
of our estimate should match
the variance reported by the filter.
Practically, this means that our
filter is neither overconfident, nor
underconfident in
the estimate it has produced.
A filter that is overconfident,
and hence inconsistent,
will report a covariance
that is optimistic.
That is, the filter will essentially place
too much emphasis on its own estimate and
will be less sensitive to
future measurement updates,
which may provide critical information.
It's easy to see how an overconfident
filter might have a negative or
dangerous effect on the performance
of self-driving car.
Showing the consistency property formally
is outside of the scope of the course.
You can take my word that it is
indeed true for a common filter.
So long as our initial
estimate is consistent, and
we have white zero mean noise,
then all estimates will be consistent.
Putting everything together,
we've shown that given white
uncorrelated zero mean noise, the Kalman
Filter is unbiased and consistent.
Because of these two facts,
we say that the Kalman Filter is the BLUE,
the best linear unbiased estimator.
It produces unbiased estimates with
the minimum possible variance.
To summarize, in this lesson
we've defined the terms bias and
consistency, and
showed that the Kalman Filter is unbiased,
consistent, and the Best Linear
Unbiased Estimator, or BLUE.
Remember that best here refers to
the fact that the Kalman Filter minimizes
the state variance.
Although this is a fantastic result,
most real systems are not linear.
For self-driving cars, we'll
generally need to estimate non-linear
quantities like vehicle poses,
position, and orientation in 2D and 3D.
To do this,
we'll need to extend the linear
Kalman Filter into the non-linear domain.
We'll do this in the next lesson.
[MUSIC]